---
date: 2025-03-23 15:00:00-06:00
title: Update | 2025 Mar 23
---

Hello!

## Embedded Stuff

I've picked back up some embedded systems projects I was started to explore [some
months ago](/blog/update-2024-11-17/). Getting closer to the bare metal is fun,
and it's really interesting to learn the raw mechanics/protocols of some of the
most fundamental electronic/computer systems that are used all over the place,
from the internet to elevators.

I recently reproduced [Ben Eater's reliable data transmission video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eq5YpKHXJDM). It starts with simply printing a message to an LCD,
then upgrades to sending a message over a serial connection where the computers are
synced up based on simple internal clock delays, then ends with the transmitter
sending a clock signal alongside the message to overcome clock differences.

Here's a video of the simple message transmission working for 2 letters "H" and "e" but
then failing (because the clocks get out of sync):

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/B4-2ebXKwXQ?si=rr-AY-5BJ6VP9ke_" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Here's a video of it working with the clock signal:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/j1H4EFqFxWk?si=TRD4_E28pQAkZI-E" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Generally going forward, I'm looking to better understand the physics side of things, and continue doing more
embedded systems + circuit projects. Hopefully in upcoming blog posts
I can share increasingly interesting stuff.

## Math Academy

I've been continuing with Math Academy! Finished linear algebra, and currently
relearning multivariable calculus. I didn't really feel that enthusiastic about
learning this subject back in high school, but I think this second
time around it's going to be a lot more fun. Before I was just getting a grade
in a class, but now the math is fun for the sake of itself, and I can see all
these different subjects I care about that will become easier from understanding
this better. *And* math academy makes learning it so much more effecive, and
the progress is more concrete + rewarding.

I haven't been doing it everyday, but I've gotten into a solid habit of
doing larger chunks Friday-Sunday, and maintaining a place in the second to
the top league.

I still really wish there was a math academy for other subjects. The confidence I
have in my progress while learning is very motivating, whereas spending most of my
learning time reading vs. less time doing problems with a textbook feels much less
concrete. When it comes to learning more of the physics fundamentals of
electricity/magnetism that I'm starting to get into, I would love something
math academy-esque. But for engineering projects, building things is
so hands-on I feel like I can get into the progress/learning feedback loop pretty
well already.

## Noobular

Not much of an update lately. Got some basic functionality for auth working
but have since been focused on other things.

I've been learning to better distinguish when I should rewrite or refactor
something.

On rewriting:
- Writing from scratch is fun, and teaches you a lot.
- If something was half-baked, it can be better to start from a blank
slate than clean up a mess.
- Rewriting something you've written before at the start of a new project
can let you tackle things with fresh eyes, e.g. john carmack rewriting a game
engine from scratch for each new game.

On refactoring:
- Part of the beauty of software is its malleability, and each time you
refactor you pick up more ways on how to make your software more adaptable.
And most of the time you don't know upfront how everything is going to look,
and [structures naturally emerge](https://grugbrain.dev/#grug-on-factring-your-code)
as you learn more about what you're making. In this case rewriting doesn't really
make sense.
- Often people wrote things in a particular way for a reason,
and rewriting it ends up either throwing out important things unintentionally,
or the rewrite ends up looking really similar to the present thing. I continue
to see situations where instead of thinking "huh this is weird, it could be written
in a nicer way," it's better to think "huh, the author came to a solution I didn't
expect, what led to this being written this way?"

In hindsight I don't think I really needed to rewrite noobular. It's too early on
to need a rewrite, and the structure that emerged already worked well for
what I needed. Sure I can make some of the my HTTP structures slightly nicer,
but really that doesn't really matter all that much (and ended up being pretty
similar to what I had already). There are many things that needed to be cleaned up,
but could have been done perfectly fine with refactoring. The one thing I found
was kind of valuable to do from scratch was the DB stuff. I am not using an
ORM and am forming my own sort of structure/wrapper around the DB, and haven't
done this many times before, so the change is big enough that it might as well
be rewritten.

Anyway, as I do more embedded projects, I'm not sure how much time I'll be dedicating
to noobular! Only time will tell.