---
title: "2023 Jan 09"
date: 2023-01-15T21:01:06-06:00
draft: false
---

- [Watched this video on Rust 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OuSiuySr6_Q). I didn’t even really consider that there is still so much development to do on Rust, and that some of the “accidental complexity” scenarios that were mentioned existed.

- SCID stands for short channel ID.
- Looking into this issue: https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/issues/1570
    - This is kind of tough. I feel like it’s not that bad, but I just am not familiar with the whole repo so I don’t know what exists and where things are.

    - I’m looking at `pub fn fail_htlc_backwards(&self, payment_hash: &PaymentHash)` on `ChannelManager`. This seems to be what the issue is talking about, i.e. an exposed function for the user to tell the `ChannelManager` to fail back a payment. From what I understand, this function removes the payment from the `ChannelManager`'s `claimable_payments`--the (inbound) payments it thinks are able to be/in the midst of being claimed, then for each source of the payment (can be multiple for a MPP) it “fails back” HTLCs to free up resources on channels along the path from here to the original sender.
        - Purpose of the function: Indicates that the preimage for payment_hash is unknown or the received amount is incorrect after a PaymentClaimable event, failing the HTLC back to its origin and freeing resources along the path (including in our own channel on which we received it).

        - For each source currently, it marks the reason as `HTLCFailReason::reason(0x4000 | 15, htlc_msat_height_data);` which I don’t really get, however I believe this might be something we would change to allow the user to input?
    - Have a lot more to say, left my summarized thoughts as a comment.
- Trying to go about my first issue is leaving me with a good amount of questions that I’m realizing could probably be answered by doing a lot of review. Definitely going to prioritize trying to do that tomorrow.

