---
date: 2023-03-01 01:19:35-06:00
title: 2023 Feb 15
---

- Honestly, I don’t need to use NeoVim. I like helix. I should just make my own theme.

    - I like vim bindings a little more I think, and I like the universality of vim. But if I even want to migrate, I will need to configure most of the defaults of helix in neovim…
- My focuses in the near future
    - Continue to mature as a developer, absorb the codebase, help where I can.

    - Eventually come to informed understandings of what is important for the codebase and protocol etc.
- Interesting how rust implements ranges: basically just denotes an inclusive/exclusive starting and ending point, with shorthand of `..`. And set data structures can return a range of keys/items based on their values denoted with a range even if the full range isn’t present.
- Ohhhh [that’s](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/blob/master/07-routing-gossip.md#definition-of-short_channel_id) what a `short_channel_id` is…block height, tx index, output index of the funding tx in 8 bytes. Human readable format is decimal conversions of the three fields separated by x’s.
- Spent like 2-3 hours making my own theme in helix. It doesn’t feel like there’s a great way to develop a theme, i.e. if only there were hot reload haha. In the end there are still several things to customize and I feel like it’s still sort of half baked so I’m just using my other default theme I was already using. I’ve got some newfound respect for the theme builders.
- Learned about [routing gossip query messages](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/blob/master/07-routing-gossip.md#query-messages). Nodes can query for gossip messages by short_channel_id, by block range, or by timestamp. It’s important to note that by needing to support querying by block range, the implementation will want to store some sorted order of gossip messages. I was confused when just looking at the implementation today because I didn’t realize this was part of the spec.
- Stubbing in programming often means implementing a mock version of something for testing, or to make a thin wrapper for testing (say, in rust-lightning, the debug_sync crate has wrapped Mutex and RwLock for testing lock orders).