---
date: 2023-01-22 23:21:33-06:00
title: 2023 Jan 19
---

- Completed cryptopals set 1 challenges 5 and 6. Challenge 6 was said to be a qualifying round, and now that I’ve gotten in the groove these didn’t take too long. Feeling good!

- New helix tip: you can use `C-d` to scroll down and `C-u` to scroll up in the documentation popup!
- Learned a new word: mantissa. It’s the numbers after the decimal point.
- Stumbled upon this: [Rust Performance Book](https://nnethercote.github.io/perf-book/introduction.html).
- [Learned what inlining means](https://matklad.github.io/2021/07/09/inline-in-rust.html): replace a function with the code itself to help performance. Mainly helps because the compiler can optimize the code together, as well as get rid of function call overhead. The Rust compiler already inlines a lot automatically, the `#[inline]` attribute however can suggest it to the compiler.
- What are holding cells? Also seeing this all over but never really looked into it.
- I can feel myself becoming a little looser when pushing to my PR now that I’m just responding to feedback more often. On one hand it’s good for me to become more comfortable, but also I don’t want to get sloppy and waste anyone’s time if I could’ve caught something with marginal extra care.
- I’m going to continue doing more review, but dang it’s basically the feeling of not knowing where you are, just repeated over and over. I guess that’s the point; that’s how you get assimilated to a code base like this, keep exploring new places. Oh but it hurts my head. But this is only the beginning. Gotta do a lot more of this to do greater and greater work!
- I’m reaching a point where I’m honestly sorta struggling with this. Need to just keep at it, keep doing code review, keep learning more about lightning, and importantly, keep having fun exploring. This is really cool stuff. If I don’t get overwhelmed with the minutia, it’s pretty crazy to think I get to work on this and have insane Bitcoiners spare their time to look at my code.