---
title: "2023 Jan 03"
date: 2023-01-08T22:17:09-06:00
draft: false
---

- Learned what [SIM swapping](https://blog.mozilla.org/en/privacy-security/mozilla-explains-sim-swapping/) is: Someone can pretend to be you using fairly basic/accessible information to get your phone carrier to reassign your phone number to a different SIM card. Then they can compromise anything that uses phone number for authentication.

- Learned how to squash PRs/commits using `git rebase -i HEAD~n` from [this resource](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#squashing-commits).
- Got some more feedback on my PR from before Christmas! Getting closer to getting it merged!
- The other issue I was starting to work on got closed before I could share my update. Conveniently I was going to sort of recommend that anyway, so it all worked out. And my work on it does not go wasted, I definitely learned a good bit from spending time on it.
- Got an answer on why not to use dependencies in a project. It’s interesting, when learning to code, you are taught that libraries save you from reinventing the wheel, and up until now I never really considered the downsides of adding dependencies. But it makes a lot of sense now giving it some thought, that for any serious project, a dependency is often a liability. It can take away from iteration speed, it can add complexity, it can add security vulnerabilities, and if you need to change something about it you might spend time maintaining a fork or wait to merge a PR for the next release. If you can reproduce the functionality simply, you face far fewer of these issues.