---
title: "2023 Jan 14"
date: 2023-01-15T21:01:19-06:00
draft: false
---

- [Difference between `impl` and `dyn`](https://www.ncameron.org/blog/dyn-trait-and-impl-trait-in-rust/): they call it static vs. dynamic dispatch. Static dispatch is that the rust compiler will copy code for each type that fits the `impl` type. Dynamic dispatch is that it will store a fat pointer to both the object and vtable of functions, i.e. it has to deference two pointers to call a function at runtime.

    - Most of the time wouldn’t you just want to use `impl`? Seems like adding extra code in compile time wouldn’t be that big of a deal.

        - Adding to this a week later: An example: let's say you want to return different error types from a function. You couldn't just do `impl` because you couldn't statically dispatch, i.e. you couldn't just make two different functions for each type because the returned type is determined at runtime.

    - What about `Box<dyn Error>`? I see that used often. Why?
- [Helix](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tGYvUXYN-c0). On one hand it’s sort of a distraction from the main work, but it’s also fun to learn something new. I think it could help while getting assimilated to rust-lightning if I knew how to navigate code easier. I could probably just get better at VS Code, but whatever.
- Along the same lines of using a terminal-based editor, going to actually commit to customizing my terminal setup, iTerm, or at least try it.
- Already realizing how much better iTerm is after just tweaking a few things. Also went through Helix tutor and it’s pretty interesting, and I get how a lot of things are intuitive like the guy in the video said.
- Spent way too much time deciding between themes for helix lol.

