---
date: 2023-04-30 16:55:55-05:00
title: 2023 Mar 26
---

- Got this error for this rust macro:
    
    ```rust
    macro_rules! extend_secret_prefix_mac {
        ($mac:ident, $message:ident, $extension:ident, $digest_to_state:ident, $pad:ident, $hash_from_state:ident, $check:ident, $default:ident) => {{
            let mut new_mac = $default;
            let state = $digest_to_state(&$mac);
            for key_len in 0..=64 {
                let full_input_len = key_len + $message.len() as u64;
                let padding = $pad(full_input_len);
                let digest = $hash_from_state($extension, full_input_len + padding.len() as u64, &state);
                let final_message = [$message, &padding[..], $extension].concat();
                if $check(&digest, &final_message) {
                    new_mac = digest.clone();
                    break;
                }
            }
            new_mac
        }};
    }
    ```
    
    It gave me this error that `digest` and `final_message` didn’t live long enough to be borrowed. I thought this was odd because the function I modeled this after didn’t face the same problem. I learned that here it doesn’t know if `$check` will use these functions after the loop iteration is done, which I’m still sort of confused why that’s the case but it does explain the error. I asked GPT if I could tell the macro somehow that it doesn’t use these values and it said there wasn’t a way other than changing the `$check` function to take ownership of the value instead of references. Hmph. Feel like I’m using the macro wrong, like I’m treating it too much as a function that I want to pass functions into without making a generic interface for those functions heh…But it feels like I should be able to somewhat easily generalize this length extension attack to different hashes the way I’m intending but I just don’t know how.
    
- Would be cool if there was a cryptopals equivalent specific for Bitcoin. Could call it bitcoinpals.
- Do watchtowers claim revoked HTLCs? (not like claiming using the preimage, but like if the HTLC tx confirmed would a watchtower take that? (I guess the watchtower should’ve just revoked before that?)