---
date: 2023-02-21 23:22:55-06:00
title: 2023 Feb 08
---

- Pretty cool, `Iter<Option<_>>::map` will map to another `Option`, so you don’t have to handle unwrapping in order to convert the inner type.

- Updated my [followup PR](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/2022).
- Probably going to do some review and cryptopals today.
- Considering switching to NeoVim…Vim is just more universal and I imagine everything I do in helix can be done in NeoVim. Then again, it is really nice how small the config is, and it’s not like I’m working on remote servers all that often…
- Feeling like I’m getting a better foundation for how to write good PRs/just be a better open-source contributor/software developer. Getting better at manipulating commits, understanding better when it makes sense to separate commits and whether to squash fixups and how to lookover my changes before pushing.
- Realized `payment_secret` doesn’t really need to tie together MPP HTLCs because they also all use the same `payment_hash`.
- Reviewing
    - Why is it necessary to move payment retrying for trampoline?

        - Saw in preceding PRs that moving payment retrying into ChannelManager is to be able to support trampoline payments. Is this to support retrying payments when a node built with LDK is acting as a trampoline node (did automated retrying not exist in LDK before)?
    - Dang so, you don’t need a mutable reference to an object if its behind a mutex (outbound_payment::abandon_payment, check_retry_payments, etc.)
        - So apparently there’s [“interior mutability”](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/cell/index.html) which basically breaks the core laws of Rust wtf!! Sometimes you want to have a shared reference that’s mutable by multiple parties (Mutex, doesn’t differentiate between readers and writers), and sometimes you do want to have a shared reference where different parties are reading or writing (RwLock, one writer many readers), along with other instances where you need to employ mutability where Rust typically wouldn’t let you.

        - What is the reason for changing `abandon_payment` and `check_retry_payments` to take in `pending_events` as opposed to how it was before. Is it mainly just because it’s a bit cleaner or is there other significance?
- I love Bitcoin Optech: [great summary on trampoline](https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/trampoline-payments/).
    - Question: to conceal whether a trampoline node is sending to the final destination, the recipient must also be a trampoline node right (which definitely wouldn’t always be the case)? Because in order for it to be ambiguous, a trampoline would have to not be able to tell if it was sending to another trampoline or not, but whether nodes support trampoline is public or easily discovered right?