---
date: 2023-01-29 16:53:51-06:00
title: 2023 Jan 28
---

- [Football vs basketball society](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2AaQn3FOrfY): strengthening your weakest link is more important than strengthening your strongest link (this is a rapid change that has occurred lately). Really cool to hear about because I’ve personally come to the conclusion on my own that at the least it’s more interesting to me to raise the floor.

- Went through a git exercise with Illini Blockchain tech leads and it was bleh. Went through it on the tv screen so they could follow along, but should’ve just had them just go through it and ask for questions when they needed help. I was still a little unprepared which made it lower quality. Honestly most of them probably know this stuff just fine. Feel like I wasted their time.
- Learnings from my Illini Blockchain tech lead training: `git rebase master` tries to rebase on my local branch. The difference between `git pull` and `git fetch` is that `git fetch` is safer because it gets the latest changes without making changes to your local files.
    
    So when I fetched, my `master` branch didn't have the changes. When you fetch, you get an output like
    
    ```
    $ git fetch origin master
    remote: Enumerating objects: 3, done.
    remote: Counting objects: 100% (3/3), done.
    remote: Compressing objects: 100% (2/2), done.
    remote: Total 3 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0), pack-reused 0
    Unpacking objects: 100% (3/3), 675 bytes | 225.00 KiB/s, done.
    From https://github.com/IlliniBlockchain/git-sample-alec
    * branch         master -> FETCH_HEAD
    f769a97..55ffe3f master -> origin/master
    ```
    
    Which is telling you that you can reference the changes with `FETCH_HEAD` or `origin/master`. So I should've just done `git rebase FETCH_HEAD` or `git rebase origin/master` and everything works just fine. Honestly kinda can't believe I didn't know this difference until now lol.