---
date: 2023-01-22 23:21:27-06:00
title: 2023 Jan 16
---

- Interesting, to get a `Channel` from `ChannelManager` (with some `htlc: ClaimableHTLC`), you have to do something like this:
    
    ```rust
    let short_channel_id = htlc.prev_hop.short_channel_id;
    let (counterparty_node_id, chan_id) = self.short_to_chan_info.read().unwrap().get(&short_channel_id).cloned().unwrap();
    let per_peer_state = self.per_peer_state.read().unwrap();
    let peer_state = per_peer_state.get(counterparty_node_id).unwrap().lock().unwrap();
    let chan = peer_state.channel_by_id.get(chan_id).unwrap();
    ```
    
    - There might be a better way I just don’t know, but that’s how it seems to be done. I would’ve thought there might just be some hashmap of channel ids to channels as a field of `ChannelManager`, but it’s interesting it’s kept in `peer_state`.

- Getting a lot better at Helix. Some nifty shortcuts: `]g` to go to next change, `space f` for file picker, `m i <char>` to do vim’s `v i <char>` i.e. matching inside, `space k` to pull up documentation on a variable/type/etc., `g d` to go to definition, `g r` to go to references. Still having trouble navigating the jumplist, and going back to previous places/managing different places at one time.

- Learned about the `ChannelManager` [lock order](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/blob/main/lightning/src/ln/channelmanager.rs#L563). I ran into some trouble where I was violating the lock order, and my solution was to just clone `short_to_chan_info` to release the lock so I could then grab the lock for `per_peer_state`. It seemed there was no other way to find a channel from a short channel id, but it felt like cheating, although I saw it done somewhere else. I’ll hopefully come to understand more about why the lock order is the way it is as I work with the code base more.
    
- Also noticing there are several different structs and enums defined relating to failure codes/messages that could maybe be standardized in the future.
- Did a lot today. Finally feeling a little more familiar with at least the area of the repo I’ve been working with.