---
title: "2023 Jan 10"
date: 2023-01-15T21:01:10-06:00
draft: false
---

- [Apparently a good book on computer networking suggested by the LDK discord](https://gaia.cs.umass.edu/kurose_ross/online_lectures.htm)

- Finally learned about [macros in Rust](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch19-06-macros.html). They are honestly fairly straight forward, at least conceptually. This is my first real introduction to meta-programming, which I had heard a lot about but never really learned myself.
- Also realized there are a lot of books for Rust stuff. There’s a [reference book](https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/introduction.html#what-the-reference-is-not) for more in-depth documentation of the language structure. Seems like a [good section on macros](https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/macros.html).
- Review: OP_CLTV (check lock time verify) is absolute, OP_CSV (check sequence verify) is relative to the confirmed block the transaction appears in.
- Trying to dig into a PR: https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/1878
    - In the issue it mentions this is important for people doing (submarine) swaps: why?

        - Review: [Submarine swaps](https://docs.lightning.engineering/the-lightning-network/multihop-payments/understanding-submarine-swaps). Can be used for…
            1. Alice wants to pay Bob on-chain, Bob wants to receive payment off-chain on lightning, so they use a third person (or some intermediary route) Claire that has the necessary liquidity to pay Bob on lightning. Here, Bob generates a secret, and sends the hash to Alice—essentially just Bob creating a Lightning invoice for Alice. Alice creates an HTLC to send money to Claire (Claire can take funds within time frame with preimage/secret, after cltv_expiry Alice can reclaim funds). Claire creates an HTLC to send money to Bob on their payment channel (only after Alice’s HTLC has been broadcasted on-chain to ensure she can’t double spend it). If Bob claims the payment, he shares the preimage/secret, and Claire is able to claim the funds from Alice.

            2. Alice is paying Bob on-chain to receive off-chain assets. Happens similarly to above but now both Alice and Bob are senders and receivers.
    - What is all this about packing the custom_cltv_expiry_time into the payment secret metadata?
    - What is this PR doing: changelog at the bottom was probably the most helpful for this.

