---
title: "2023 Mar 06"
date: 2023-03-26T21:11:37-05:00
draft: false
---

- What is OP_RETURN? I know it was previously left to include extra data about the timestamp or something but people keep talking about it in relation to taproot?

- Watched Imitation Game. [Alan Turing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alan_Turing) really had quite a crazy life. Crazy foundational work in computing, I didn’t even realize breaking enigma was a government secret for over 50 years, he was put on hormone therapy for being gay, and his best friend died of tuberculosis when he was in primary school. I imagine there’s so much more but wow.
- Haven’t fully understood what people mean when they talk about fungibility. I have seen the issues with fungibility when it comes to things like the dust limit (and don’t really know what to say about it besides it’s a problem and it’s sort of solved by lightning, but generally I don’t know if it can be solved or is considered something to solve), but more recently I realized what people meant in terms of privacy. If the identity of a public key associated with an output is known, it “stains” all future spends of that output because now they are tied to that identity. This hurts fungibility because some people might not want to be paid with a stained output, when all outputs are still real bitcoin. I’ve heard how coinjoin helps with this which makes sense, not super sure if it totally fixes it after several mixed spends?
- Checked out some new candidates for summer of bitcoin from the LDK roadmap, however for various reasons, it seems they aren’t fit.
    - Learned about [dynamic commitments](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/lightning-dev/2020-July/002763.html) ([update](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/lightning-dev/2022-March/003532.html)). Really cool. Basically want to upgrade format of commitment transactions without creating a new channel and funding transaction on-chain (also can update funding transaction by deferring it to closing). This has been needed for `static_remote_key` (apparently when force closing, your counterparty required a secret from you to claim their funds, surprising), as well as for anchor outputs, and now for taproot.

    - Project scoping is difficult in general for a fixed timeline. Okay that’s really not necessarily true, but for some reason it is for me lol.
- [Dioxus, Rust UI that runs anywhere?](https://github.com/dioxuslabs/dioxus) I sound like clickbait
- [Waa](https://cecilianyc.com/) [aaahh](https://ceciliaazcarate.com/)

