---
date: 2026-01-31 12:00:00-08:00
title: 2026 Jan 31
---

- People always explain [electricity in terms of water](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hydraulic_analogy). It's really interesting how many parallels there are, and that the units work out so well. But I personally was really confused by this because the flow of electrons is the not the speed that I perceive "electricity." Electrons are flowing on average around 0.2 mm/s, but when I flip a switch, a light on the other side of the room turns on instantly. Maybe it's just me, but the water analogy made me think that electrons are moving super fast, say from the switch to the lightbulb. But really it's more accurate to describe this as dominoes or newtons balls, where the electrons are moving slowly, but the force propagates fast. [And the water analogy can still work here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X_crwFuPht4&t=1795s), in that when you have water at rest and you add new flow, the wave propagates say, throughout the whole length of the pipe very fast, even if each portion of water is itself moving slowly. But that was not intuitive to me at first.
- Scaling battery storage allows for the broader ability to custody energy. This introduces a sort of new primitive into market of energy. There were already fancy ways of trading energy, i.e. trading oil and gas contracts on a macro scale, and programmatically varying load on bitcoin miners/data centers based on the price of electricity. There's still many steps between custody of oil as an asset, and final settlement of using energy derived from it, whereas there's basically no steps between custody of energy in a battery to straight direct current. With data centers, you could only vary when you bought energy, but now you can sell it back. I wonder how much we'll see companies with massive battery deployments, that basically lease custody of energy like financial exchanges today, and there's a whole group of retail and institutional traders that enable price discovery efficiently.
- what would be the perfect ice cream machine? i think basically the smaller the ice crystals the better. for air content, it can vary by preference, so that should be configurable. the shape of the inner container should be designed such that there's uniform exposure to "coldness" - i'm imagining a slightly narrower cylinder instead of something like a wide bowl, since the surface is significantly colder than the inside (or maybe continually churning makes the impact of the shape more marginal). then again, liquid nitrogen is a totally different approach that really only needs something like a bread mixer. simpler, elegant
