---
date: 2026-01-25 12:00:00-08:00
title: 2026 Jan 25
---

- Some quentin terentino movies are really like one long tv show episode. they use the same technique of switching between multiple plot lines at suspenseful moments to keep you engaged. i noticed even though they're often really long movies, i don't notice the time passing as much because there's a lot to engage me. mainly thinking about pulp fiction and once upon a time in hollywood (this one i watched for the first time recently).
- This [veritasium video on electricity](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oI_X2cMHNe0)was extremely interesting. The evidence for this around the first undersea cables being disrupted by the conductivity of water was really cool. I did feel the initial demonstration was misleading, because for a second it made me think wires almost didn't matter lol, but this second video clarifies, a small amount of energy propagates through the air, while the full bright light bulb amount arrives through the wires as we understood generally.
- This brief [minute physics x veritasium video on magnetism](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1TKSfAkWWN0) was really interesting too. The relationship between electricity and magnetism has indeed always been mysterious to me, and this has started my journey towards understanding how relativity may play a big role in explaining the relationship. Just scratching the surface.
- I learned the speed of light is always the same no matter your movement relative to it. wtf? i feel like i'm probably just misinterpreting this statement or something. The more I learn the more questions I have.
