---
date: 2026-01-29 12:00:00-08:00
title: 2026 Jan 29
---

- i'm interested in what will be defining of our time. what's happening or exists right now that will be unique to right now? and that will echo throughout history? i'm interested in the culture, like what are the movies and music that we'll be replaying when our kids are into the new stuff. but then I'm also interested in the things that shape our world. in some ways people's lives are very similar to the past, we still eat, sleep, do work, have families. but also many things are different, like i'm typing this on a computer to be posted for anyone on the internet to see, or that the majority of the material in my apartment traveled far and through many countries to get to me, except for some things i "3d-printed," which a crazy concept in itself. but then there are random little things you come across by total chance, usually many clicks deep late at night, like the [gravity research foundation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gravity_Research_Foundation), or yet another side project of [fabrice bellard](https://bellard.org/)
- in art i sometimes look for what from the time it was made influenced it. like if major world events were going on that influenced the tone or message or even peripheral dialogue. and sometimes it's really interesting, but sometimes i can't find anything, and partly it could be because i can't see it, but also sometimes people are just making great stuff independent of things that would show up in "the news"
- [good questions](https://patrickcollison.com/questions). good to revisit some great sites like this
- ["that's what we call newtonian relativity, constant velocity motion cannot be detected."](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zkv8sW6y3sY). Damn, that's interesting!
    - wait how did michelson and morey measure the speed of light? i tried to read a bit about it, don't fully understand quite yet. really curious about the assumptions this experiment was/wasn't making
    - light does not need a medium to propagate (previous to the michelson morley experiment, we thought all waves required a medium)
    - if the speed of light is constant no matter the velocity of the observer, then space and/or time must change -> discovery of length contraction + time dilation
- i learned the equation of the energy of a photon: E = hf, h = planck's constant, f = frequency
