---
date: 2026-01-24 12:00:00-08:00
title: 2026 Jan 24
---

- TLS (transport layer security) is a funny name because it's actually implemented at the application layer. I guess it's meant to be at the transport layer, but had been developed long after the transport layer had been designed, when the internet was envisioned to serve a group of trusting users.
- History of science is interesting to study to me because many of the most important discoveries were made long ago, when they didn't have the crazy tools (and complexity that comes with those tools) that we have today.
- Generally I like things to be simple and understandable, partly because there's just something beautiful about simplicity, but also because reducing complexity reduces dependence on third parties. Practically, this might not be so necessary, but I like doing/learning things myself, and feeling a tangible grip on the things in my life. I've always liked to do things like this with coding, usually because building things from scratch is fun and you learn a lot, and also less dependencies means less things that break and force you to update them in the future. Recently I changed my personal website from using the static site generator hugo, where I had a contrived file hierarchy and obscure configs, into something much simpler, where I just had a single python file that builds everything (yes, the python script still has dependencies, but you get the idea). It was very satisfying. AI coding made this a lot easier. These things should be roughly simple to begin with, so even if I don't write it all myself, it's not so complicated to edit something myself after reading it for the first time (and in this case the build script itself is only a couple hundred lines). Today I just bootstrapped a notes app. I would like something like obsidian, a WYSIWYG (what you see is what you get) markdown and csv editor, but even simpler, open-source, no plugins required, does everything I want and nothing I don't. Got something very basic up and running pretty quick which was cool. People say AI will reduce sovereignty over code, but in this way it's increasing my sovereignty.
- I always viewed mp3 as a raw audio file but it's actually a lossy compression. Wav files are the raw file, and today the opus codec (a compression method) is used in place of the mp3 in many cases.
- I've noticed many great authors/teachers often have websites accompanying or offering the same material as their books. Examples: [maxwell's equations](https://www.danfleisch.com/sgw/#) and [top down approach to networking](https://gaia.cs.umass.edu/kurose_ross/index.php). I love the internet.
- It's weird to think, atoms are kind of just an abstraction. Everything is just forces and radiating fields. It's also weird to think, depending on the slice of the electromagnetic spectrum you see the world through, it's completely "dark," or it's a bright flurrying storm.
